cardiovascular diseases account for the highest mortality rate worldwide and are expected to be the major cause of death by 2020 ( 1 ) . studies in iran showed that cardiovascular diseases are the most important cause of death and accounted for 42% of all deaths in 2002 ( 2 ) . timely diagnosis and proactive measures play a significant role in effective treatment , prevention development of heart damages and the faster recovery of cardiovascular diseases . the time it takes to reach a hospital or a coronary care unit ( ccu ) and the time spent for diagnostic and treatment measures are factors influencing the delay or loss of time from the outset of severe cardiac infarction to the beginning of treatment ( 3 ) . overall , the mortality rate of severe cardiovascular deaths is 30% , more than half of which occurs before hospitalization ( 3 ) . however , with the advancement of the epidemic this social trend reverses and people at lower socio - economic classes become more vulnerable ( 3 ) . studies conducted in some developing countries showed that the underprivileged are more susceptible to cardiac arrests compared to affluent people ( 4 ) . furthermore , limited accessibility to health services and the inequality in availability of the services furnished by health and treatment systems deprives these people of acceptable and effective treatment ( 5 ) . limited and unequal accessibility to health services in iran are one of the controversial issues mentioned in several studies ( 5 - 7 ) . in general , one of the most important goals of a health system is to provide public accessibility and equality in receiving health and treatment services . as one measure of development , accessibility to health is one of the basic rights of individuals in the society . one of the main points in meting out fairness in the health system is that the distribution of health services must not be based on the socio - economic status and incomes of individuals ( 8) . inequality in health services in different countries has taken the form of a global challenge affected by various factors , including individual , social , economic and geographical variables ( 9 ) . these factors are stronger in developing countries ( 8,10 ) so that distribution of health services resources in developing countries has turned into a fundamental issue . therefore , the measurement of fair distribution of health services on top of previous measures has been emphasized by world health organization ( who ) ( 11 ) . inequality in distribution of health services is measured by different scales one of the most common is the gini coefficient which is based on the lorenz curve ( 12 ) . although multiple measures of inequality have been shown to be highly correlated with each other ( 7,12 ) , the results of several studies are encouraging and confirming the utility of the gini index in quantifying inequalities in health - related subjects . thus , the gini index and lorenz curve are commonly used in analyzing the inequality in distribution of health care resources ( 13 - 16 ) . since accessibility to intensive healthcare , in particular for cardiovascular conditions , is of utmost importance and since the appropriate distribution of coronary care unit ( ccu ) beds and cardiologists can be taken as a measure , the present study aims to examine the inequality of the geographical distribution of ccu beds and cardiologists in iran using the gini coefficient and the lorenz curve . 